**COLORTILE USER GUIDE** _v1.2.1_

**PLATFORM** 

Hubitat Elevation series

**PURPOSE** 

Creating colorful, animated background and foreground tiles for use on Dashboards.

**OVERVIEW** 

ColorTile translates device actions, such as Button pushes or Level changes, into full-frame SVG graphics scalable to any size dashboard tile. Colors are assigned either dynamically (based on button number or level set) according to a preset theme, or from a virtually unlimited number of stored presets saved by the user. By mirroring another hub device's actions, a ColorTile – positioned over (or under) other tiles, with appropriate CSS applied to render its own background invisible – serves to highlight any changes to that device's state.

**INSTALLATION**

ColorTile is not yet available on Hubitat Package Manager. To install, first follow the customary procedure of copying or importing the ColorTile Groovy file into your hub's "Driver Code" section. Then in Devices, [+Add New Device] of type "ColorTIle". Give the new virtual device a meaningful name (e.g. "ColorTile - Living Room Lamp) and (optionally) assign it to a Room.
Note: Multiple ColorTile devices may be installed, ideally one per mirrored "real" device.

**DEPLOYMENT**

For best results, install (if necessary) and open the built-in Mirror app to link one or more attributes (e.g. Switch or Level) of a device you would like ColorTile to follow. Because the Mirror app does not include button-capable devices, you may need to create separate rules to automatically transmit button events to ColorTile as they occur.
Next, include the new ColorTile device to an existing Hubitat (Classic) Dashboard as an Attribute tile, selecting the "Tile Output" attribute. Hint: If the "Tile Output" attribute is missing from the drop-down list, go press "On" on the ColorTile device's details page.

**DASHBOARD LAYOUT**

The size and placement of your new ColorTile is entirely up to your imagination, but certain adjustments must be made for the ColorTile to look its best on your Dashboard:
1. Decide whether the ColorTile will be placed underneath another tile (or grouping of tiles) as a _background_ or on top, as an _overlay_. Warning: Stacking tiles blocks manual control of the covered tiles, so only use Overlay mode if the underlying tile is strictly visual or informational.
2. Open your dashboard and click its Gear > Advanced > Layout menu to reveal the JSON code that governs how everything is laid out. Scroll down (probably to the end) of the **"Tiles:"[ ]** section to find the **{ "ColorTile" }** block. Cut and paste that block into either the first position (for _background_ use) or last position (for _overlay_ use), otherwise taking care not to disturb the overall JSON structure. Click **Save Layout JSON**
3. Make a note of the ColorTile's unique **"id:"**, as that will be needed next for CSS styling.
4. Click CSS along the top menu, and paste the following into its editing box:
    #tile-N .tile-title {display: none;}
    #tile-N.tile {background-color: transparent !important;}
    _replace N with the ID number noted in Step 3_
5. Click **Save CSS** and **X** out of the menu.
6. Click the ⋮ found in the upper-right corner of the ColorTile.
7. Adjust its size and position until the ColorTile is stacked in line with its mirrored device.

**SETTINGS**

Most ColorTile settings (also known as Preferences) should be self-explanatory and come preset to their default values. For instance, the default SVG shape generated by ColorTile will be a filled square with a thin border at full opacity, along with a flashing animation that repeats once every 0.4 seconds. You are encouraged to "fiddle with the knobs" while refining the look of your dash tiles, being sure to click **SAVE PREFERENCES** after each adjustment.

**COMMANDS**

On each ColorTile device's details page, you will find an assortment of clickable panels, each labeled with the Command it executes along with up to two user-entered values, known as Parameters. Below is a summary of their respective names, inputs and functions:
  |Command|Parameter(s)|Range|Purpose|
  |---|---|---|---|
  |HOLD|Button* #|1..10+ (no upper limit)|Each button number can have a custom color|
  |PUSH|Button* #|1..10+ (no upper limit)|Each button number can have a custom color|
  |RELEASE|Button* #|1..10+ (no upper limit)|Each button number can have a custom color|
  |OFF|Switch|"Off"| Switch Off state can have a custom color (default: "dark gray")|
  |ON|Switch|"On"|Switch On state can have a custom color (default: "white")|
  |SET LEVEL|Level*|0..100+ (no upper limit)|Each level number can have a custom color|
  |SAVE LEVEL COLOR|Colorname* and Level* #|see FAQ|Type or paste color names/values to save|
  |SET COLOR|Color Picker*|see FAQ|Choose any HSL, RGB or Hex color value to save|
  |SET HUE|Hue*|(ignored)|_Not yet implemented_|
  |SET SATURATION|Saturation*|(ignored)|_Not yet implemented_|
  
  _Note: Parameters* with an asterisk are required; omitting any yields a warning_

**OPERATION**

_(pending)_
